feat: initial portal docs + minor cleanups (#1469)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/portals/outbox.md

---
title: Outbox
---

> The `Outbox` is a contract deployed on L1 that handle message passing from the rollup and back to L1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Outbox` is a contract deployed on L1 that handles message passing from the rollup and to L1.
```

- Will revert `Outbox__IncompatibleEntryArguments(bytes32 entryKey, uint64 storedFee, uint64 feePassed, uint32 storedVersion, uint32 versionPassed, uint32 storedDeadline, uint32 deadlinePassed)` if insertion is not possible due to invalid entry arguments.

## `consume()`

Allows a recipient to consume a message from the `Outbox`.

```solidity
function consume(
  DataStructures.L2ToL1Msg memory _message
) external returns (bytes32 entryKey);
```

| Name           | Type        | Description |
| -------------- | -------     | ----------- |
| `_message`     | `L2ToL1Msg` | The message to consume |
| ReturnValue    | `bytes32`   | The hash of the message | 

#### Edge cases

- Will revert with `Outbox__Unauthorized()` if `msg.sender != _message.recipient.actor`. 
- Will revert with `Outbox__InvalidChainId()` if `block.chainid != _message.recipient.chainId`.
- Will revert with `Outbox__NothingToConsume(bytes32 entryKey)` if the message does not exist.
- Will revert with `Outbox__InvalidVersion(uint256 entry, uint256 message)` if the version of the entry and message sender don't match (wrong rollup).

## `get()`

> Retries the `entry` for a given message. The entry contains fee, occurrences, deadline and version information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the `entry` for a given message. The entry contains fee, occurrences, deadline and version information. 
```
